cloud/cloud_services            Cloud::Services
databases/db_install            Database::Install
libraries/copbl                 CFEngine::stdlib
libraries/hardware_info         Library::Hardware::Info
libraries/yale                  Yale::stdlib
monitoring/snmp/hp_snmp_agents  Monitoring::Snmp::hp_snmp_agents
networking/ssh                  Security::SSH
package_management/aptrepo      Repository::apt::Maintain
package_management/yumclient    Repository::Yum::Client
package_management/yumrepo      Repository::Yum::Maintain
programming_languages/cpanm     Packages::CPAN::cpanm
security/file_integrity         Security::file_integrity
security/limits                 Security::security_limits
security/tcpwrappers            Security::tcpwrappers
system/config_resolver          System::config_resolver
system/cron                     System::cron
system/etc_hosts                System::etc_hosts
system/set_hostname             System::set_hostname
system/sysctl                   System::sysctl
system/tzconfig                 System::tzconfig
sketch_template                 CFEngine::sketch_template
utilities/abortclasses          Utilities::abortclasses
utilities/nagios_plugin_agent   Monitoring::nagios_plugin_agent
utilities/ping_report           Utilities::ping_report
utilities/ipverify              Utilities::ipverify
utilities/vcs_mirror            VCS::vcs_mirror
web_apps/wordpress              WebApps::wordpress_install
web_servers/webserver_install   Webserver::Install
