howto/etch_a_sketch.md, before:

# Writing a Design Center sketch

## Design Center HOWTO series

### Author: Ted Zlatanov <tzz@lifelogs.com>

### Version: 1.0.0

### sketch.json

You need to put this in `sketch.json` and create the corresponding files as
listed in the `manifest`, and the corresponding bundle as listed in the API.

    {
        manifest:
        {
            "main.cf": {desc: "main file" },
            "test.cf": {comment: "Test Policy"},
            "test.pl": {test:true},
            "params/example.json": {comment: "Example parameters to report on a few hosts connectivity."}
        },

        metadata:
        {
            name: "Utilities::ping_report",
    	    description: "Report on pingability of hosts",
            version: 1.2,
            license: "MIT",
            tags: ["cfdc"],
            authors: ["Nick Anderson <nick@cmdln.org>", "Ted Zlatanov <tzz@lifelogs.com>" ],
            depends: {"CFEngine::stdlib": {version: 105}, "CFEngine::dclib": {}, cfengine: {version: "3.4.0"}, classes: ["any"], os: ["linux"] }
        },

        api:
        {
            // the key is the name of the bundle!
            ping:
            [
                { type: "environment", name: "runenv", },
                { type: "metadata", name: "metadata", },
                { type: "list", name: "hosts" },
                { type: "string", name: "count" },
                { type: "return", name: "reached", },
                { type: "return", name: "not_reached", },
            ],
    },
    
        namespace: "cfdc_ping",
        inputs: ["main.cf"]
    }

This definition says: the sketch has 3 files as listed (the minimum recommended
set; `test.cf` in particular is very important to ensure the sketch is testable
without JSON imports or any other wizardry).

The `metadata` keys shown are all obvious and mandatory.  Under `depends` you
can list class, OS, sketch, and CFEngine version dependencies.  The `classes`
and `os` keys are *optional* strings or lists of strings that are interpreted at
runtime to see if the bundle should run.  So specifying `depends.os = 'linux',
depends.classes = 'specialclass'` really says "install everywhere you like, but
this can only run on Linux when _specialclass_ is set".  The CFEngine version
and sketch dependencies, on the other hand, are checked at install time.

The `namespace` key, if missing, is assumed to be `null` and thus any `api`
bundles are in the `default` namespace.

The `inputs` key lists all the CFEngine inputs that the sketch requires the user
to include.

Finally, the `api` key is a key-value correspondence of bundle name to a list of
bundle parameters.  In the example above, the `ping` bundle takes 4 parameters
and returns 2 things.

The `metadata` parameter type is special: it's an array populated from
`sketch.json`.  So, for example, the list of tags and authors is available to
the sketch itself.

The `environment` parameter type is also special: it defines a run environment.
The run environment is a set of contexts and configuration data that defines a
global context for bundles.  For example, it can express *development* versus
*production* versus *testing*.

Besides `metadata` and `environment`, you can use these data types:

* `string`: a single string.  Nothing fancy.

* `boolean`: same as a string, but either 1 or not-1.  Use `strcmp("1", $(boolean))` to test.

* `list`: a slist.

* `array`: a string naming an array.  Use `$($(arrayvar)[index])` to dereference it.

You also have the `return` data type, which is just like a string.

### main.cf

The `main.cf` file (although you can name it anything, this is suggested) should
be structured like so:

```
body file control
{
      namespace => "cfdc_ping";
}

bundle agent ping(runenv, metadata, hosts, count)
{
  classes:
      "$(vars)" expression => "default:runenv_$(runenv)_$(vars)";

  vars:
      "vars" slist => { "@(default:$(runenv).env_vars)" };
      "$(vars)" string => "$(default:$(runenv).$(vars))";

      # select between test/non-test runs like this

    !test::
      "exec_prefix" string => "", policy => "free";
    test::
      "exec_prefix" string => "/bin/echo ", policy => "free";

    any::
      # note we're using the paths bundle from cfengine_stdlib.cf
      "pinger" string => "$(exec_prefix)$(default:paths.path[ping])", policy => "free";

  methods:
    verbose::
      "metadata" usebundle => default:report_metadata($(this.bundle), $(metadata)),
      inherit => "true";

  reports:
    verbose::
      "$(this.bundle): imported environment '$(runenv)' var '$(vars)' with value '$($(vars))'";
      "$(this.bundle): imported environment '$(runenv)' class '$(vars)' because 'default:runenv_$(runenv)_$(vars)' was defined"
      ifvarclass => "$(vars)";

    cfengine::
      # these are the return values, to be filled by every bundle as needed
      "$(reached_str)" bundle_return_value_index => "reached";
      "$(not_reached_str)" bundle_return_value_index => "not_reached";
}
```

This example shows you how to use the `metadata` parameter and how to import the
run environment through the `runenv` parameter.

### parameters.json

You need to specify the bundle parameters in a separate JSON file.

They look like this:

```
{
   "Utilities::ping_report":
   {
       hosts: [ "localhost", "127.0.0.1", "boogie.woogie"],
       count: 2,
   }
}
```

Simple, right?  If you give `cf-sketch` a list instead, it creates multiple activations:

```
[{
   "Utilities::ping_report":
   {
       hosts: [ "127.0.0.1", "boogie.woogie"],
       count: 8,
   }
},
{
   "Utilities::ping_report":
   {
       hosts: [ "localhost"],
       count: 2,
   }
}]

```

If a parameter set specifies a `__bundle__` key, it only applies to that bundle
(normally you don't need to specify this, because parameters are matched by
name).


```
{
   "Utilities::ping_report":
   {
       __bundle__: "not_the_one_you_want",
       hosts: [ "localhost", "127.0.0.1", "boogie.woogie"],
       count: 2,
   }
}
```

In the example above, the bundle `ping` defined in the sketch API won't match
`not_the_one_you_want` and you won't be able to use that parameter set.

### test.cf and test.pl

You can choose to provide a `test.cf` file that will let your sketch get tested locally.

It should be runnable with simply `cf-agent -KI -f ./test.cf`.

You may also choose to provide a `test.pl` script to test your sketch.  It
should be runnable with the standard Perl `Test::Harness` module and *must* be
given `test: true` key in the `sketch.json` manifest.  Here is a partial Perl
example for the `Application::Memcached` sketch.  It plans 6 tests and does
syntax validation, then runs `test.cf`, and finally looks at the output to
verify that things actually ran correctly.

```perl
#!/usr/bin/perl

use warnings;
use strict;
use Test;

BEGIN { plan tests => 6, todo => [] }

ok(exists $ENV{CFPROMISES} && -x $ENV{CFPROMISES}, 1, "check for cf-promises");
ok(exists $ENV{CFAGENT} && -x $ENV{CFAGENT}, 1, "check for cf-agent");

ok(system($ENV{CFPROMISES}, -f => './test.cf'), 0, "syntax check test.cf");

open my $run, '-|', "$ENV{CFAGENT} -KI -f ./test.cf";

ok(defined $run, 1, "run status of test.cf");

my $output = join '', <$run>;

ok($output,
   qr/R: cfdc_memcached:server: Applications::Memcached/,
   "metadata check");

ok($output,
   qr/Overriding bundle return status to success/,
   "test mode override of bundle install status");
```

Commit message:

Redmine#3317: introduce compound sketch+entry point description.  Demo in VMWare sketch and its README.  Support in cf-sketch.pl as well.  Document in howto/etch_a_sketch.md

howto/etch_a_sketch.md, after:

# Writing a Design Center sketch

## Design Center HOWTO series

### Author: Ted Zlatanov <tzz@lifelogs.com>

### Version: 1.0.0

### sketch.json

You need to put this in `sketch.json` and create the corresponding files as
listed in the `manifest`, and the corresponding bundle as listed in the API.

    {
        manifest:
        {
            "main.cf": {desc: "main file" },
            "test.cf": {comment: "Test Policy"},
            "test.pl": {test:true},
            "params/example.json": {comment: "Example parameters to report on a few hosts connectivity."}
        },

        metadata:
        {
            name: "Utilities::ping_report",
    	    description: "Report on pingability of hosts",
            bundle_descriptions: { ping: "Ping a specific host" },
            version: 1.2,
            license: "MIT",
            tags: ["cfdc"],
            authors: ["Nick Anderson <nick@cmdln.org>", "Ted Zlatanov <tzz@lifelogs.com>" ],
            depends: {"CFEngine::stdlib": {version: 105}, "CFEngine::dclib": {}, cfengine: {version: "3.4.0"}, classes: ["any"], os: ["linux"] }
        },

        api:
        {
            // the key is the name of the bundle!
            ping:
            [
                { type: "environment", name: "runenv", },
                { type: "metadata", name: "metadata", },
                { type: "list", name: "hosts" },
                { type: "string", name: "count" },
                { type: "return", name: "reached", },
                { type: "return", name: "not_reached", },
            ],
    },
    
        namespace: "cfdc_ping",
        inputs: ["main.cf"]
    }

This definition says: the sketch has 3 files as listed (the minimum recommended
set; `test.cf` in particular is very important to ensure the sketch is testable
without JSON imports or any other wizardry).

The `metadata` keys shown are all obvious and mandatory.  Under `depends` you
can list class, OS, sketch, and CFEngine version dependencies.  The `classes`
and `os` keys are *optional* strings or lists of strings that are interpreted at
runtime to see if the bundle should run.  So specifying `depends.os = 'linux',
depends.classes = 'specialclass'` really says "install everywhere you like, but
this can only run on Linux when _specialclass_ is set".  The CFEngine version
and sketch dependencies, on the other hand, are checked at install time.

The `bundle_descriptions` key under `metadata` should be a key-value array with
key = bundle name and value = description of that bundle, as shown in the
example.

The `namespace` key, if missing, is assumed to be `null` and thus any `api`
bundles are in the `default` namespace.

The `inputs` key lists all the CFEngine inputs that the sketch requires the user
to include.

Finally, the `api` key is a key-value correspondence of bundle name to a list of
bundle parameters.  In the example above, the `ping` bundle takes 4 parameters
and returns 2 things.

The `metadata` parameter type is special: it's an array populated from
`sketch.json`.  So, for example, the list of tags and authors is available to
the sketch itself.

The `environment` parameter type is also special: it defines a run environment.
The run environment is a set of contexts and configuration data that defines a
global context for bundles.  For example, it can express *development* versus
*production* versus *testing*.

Besides `metadata` and `environment`, you can use these data types:

* `string`: a single string.  Nothing fancy.

* `boolean`: same as a string, but either 1 or not-1.  Use `strcmp("1", $(boolean))` to test.

* `list`: a slist.

* `array`: a string naming an array.  Use `$($(arrayvar)[index])` to dereference it.

You also have the `return` data type, which is just like a string.

### main.cf

The `main.cf` file (although you can name it anything, this is suggested) should
be structured like so:

```
body file control
{
      namespace => "cfdc_ping";
}

bundle agent ping(runenv, metadata, hosts, count)
{
  classes:
      "$(vars)" expression => "default:runenv_$(runenv)_$(vars)";

  vars:
      "vars" slist => { "@(default:$(runenv).env_vars)" };
      "$(vars)" string => "$(default:$(runenv).$(vars))";

      # select between test/non-test runs like this

    !test::
      "exec_prefix" string => "", policy => "free";
    test::
      "exec_prefix" string => "/bin/echo ", policy => "free";

    any::
      # note we're using the paths bundle from cfengine_stdlib.cf
      "pinger" string => "$(exec_prefix)$(default:paths.path[ping])", policy => "free";

  methods:
    verbose::
      "metadata" usebundle => default:report_metadata($(this.bundle), $(metadata)),
      inherit => "true";

  reports:
    verbose::
      "$(this.bundle): imported environment '$(runenv)' var '$(vars)' with value '$($(vars))'";
      "$(this.bundle): imported environment '$(runenv)' class '$(vars)' because 'default:runenv_$(runenv)_$(vars)' was defined"
      ifvarclass => "$(vars)";

    cfengine::
      # these are the return values, to be filled by every bundle as needed
      "$(reached_str)" bundle_return_value_index => "reached";
      "$(not_reached_str)" bundle_return_value_index => "not_reached";
}
```

This example shows you how to use the `metadata` parameter and how to import the
run environment through the `runenv` parameter.

### parameters.json

You need to specify the bundle parameters in a separate JSON file.

They look like this:

```
{
   "Utilities::ping_report":
   {
       hosts: [ "localhost", "127.0.0.1", "boogie.woogie"],
       count: 2,
   }
}
```

Simple, right?  If you give `cf-sketch` a list instead, it creates multiple activations:

```
[{
   "Utilities::ping_report":
   {
       hosts: [ "127.0.0.1", "boogie.woogie"],
       count: 8,
   }
},
{
   "Utilities::ping_report":
   {
       hosts: [ "localhost"],
       count: 2,
   }
}]

```

If a parameter set specifies a `__bundle__` key, it only applies to that bundle
(normally you don't need to specify this, because parameters are matched by
name).


```
{
   "Utilities::ping_report":
   {
       __bundle__: "not_the_one_you_want",
       hosts: [ "localhost", "127.0.0.1", "boogie.woogie"],
       count: 2,
   }
}
```

In the example above, the bundle `ping` defined in the sketch API won't match
`not_the_one_you_want` and you won't be able to use that parameter set.

### test.cf and test.pl

You can choose to provide a `test.cf` file that will let your sketch get tested locally.

It should be runnable with simply `cf-agent -KI -f ./test.cf`.

You may also choose to provide a `test.pl` script to test your sketch.  It
should be runnable with the standard Perl `Test::Harness` module and *must* be
given `test: true` key in the `sketch.json` manifest.  Here is a partial Perl
example for the `Application::Memcached` sketch.  It plans 6 tests and does
syntax validation, then runs `test.cf`, and finally looks at the output to
verify that things actually ran correctly.

```perl
#!/usr/bin/perl

use warnings;
use strict;
use Test;

BEGIN { plan tests => 6, todo => [] }

ok(exists $ENV{CFPROMISES} && -x $ENV{CFPROMISES}, 1, "check for cf-promises");
ok(exists $ENV{CFAGENT} && -x $ENV{CFAGENT}, 1, "check for cf-agent");

ok(system($ENV{CFPROMISES}, -f => './test.cf'), 0, "syntax check test.cf");

open my $run, '-|', "$ENV{CFAGENT} -KI -f ./test.cf";

ok(defined $run, 1, "run status of test.cf");

my $output = join '', <$run>;

ok($output,
   qr/R: cfdc_memcached:server: Applications::Memcached/,
   "metadata check");

ok($output,
   qr/Overriding bundle return status to success/,
   "test mode override of bundle install status");
```
